XBeach
======

XBeach is an open-source numerical model which is originally developed
to simulate hydrodynamic and morphodynamic processes and impacts on
sandy coasts with a domain size of kilometers and on the time scale of
storms. Since then, the model has been applied to other types of
coasts and purposes.

The model includes the hydrodynamic processes of short wave
transformation (refraction, shoaling and breaking), long wave
(infragravity wave) transformation (generation, propagation and
dissipation), wave-induced setup and unsteady currents, as well as
overwash and inundation. The morphodynamic processes include bed load
and suspended sediment transport, dune face avalanching, bed update
and breaching. Effects of vegetation and of hard structures have been
included. The model has been validated with a series of analytical,
laboratory and field test cases using a standard set of parameter
settings.

Community
---------

The XBeach community website can be found at <http://xbeach.org>,
which hosts a user forum, daily builds and test reports.

Github
------

The XBeach source code is hosted in the Deltares Open-source Software
(OSS) Subversion repository at
<https://svn.oss.deltares.nl/repos/xbeach/trunk>. This Github
repository is a mirror of the Subversion repository as a convenience
for automated services like [Read the Docs](http://readthedocs.org),
[CircleCI](http://circleci.com) or [DockerHub](http://hub.docker.com).

The Github repository is synchronsized with the Subversion repository
at midnight, but not the other way around. The Github repository
should therefore not be altered directly. In the near future XBeach
will be migrated to its own Github organization.
